so thank you all for joining I will give
a short outline of tonight
that you know we have two and a half
hours together which is a great amount
of time and you will see the time will
pass as fast as you entered now so
um tonight
we start with an achievement a
meditation
to just settle in with the theme we
um yeah we just programmed for this for
this wisdom Keepers Gathering
um and of course we're gonna we're gonna
look ahead to uh the upcoming
uh hour to hour and a half with Chris
and Dwayne
so what are their backgrounds and
why they're here and you're gonna see
they're coming from two different angles
two different perspectives two different
um
paradigms I would say and this is a
beautiful
dance we're gonna encounter what are the
possibilities especially
creating a new mindset as humans
a mindset of the whole universe
because it's not about the technical
logical
evolution of the world leaders you're
going to create
a diminishing of greenhouse gases you're
going to drive your electric car you're
gonna put more trees in the ground you
are more kind to your neighbors where
that's the start where the mindset
starts
and after on an hour and a half a dance
with Chris and Dwayne sounds like music
in my ears
um we have the last
45 minutes half an hour to look ahead
for creating more circles as a as a
community as a human family to create
and to
practice this new mindset so we're gonna
we're gonna guide you through this step
by step
and
um please sit in your comfortable chair
have a good evening
and before we start
I would like you to close your eyes
trust us as hosts
we're good people we came with a good
mission
and ask you the question
so why are you here tonight
what's your real intention
of your presence during this gathering
with Dwayne
Chris and all this human famine
are you here out of curiosity
are you here to learn are you here to
thrive
whatever your attention is doesn't
matter
or really sense the reason why you're
here that's already
here in this moment
visualize your intention for this
evening
as if
it's the present time
what's your contribution to this
beautiful world we're living in
what do you sense from your core from
your heart
why you're here to contribute
as a whole
as a whole Human family
and if you have a
deeper understanding why you contributed
tonight
and try to remember this for the rest of
the evening
and please feel guided
from a meditation we're going to start
now
and before we start this meditation take
some deep breaths
just to settle in
allow yourself to open up to this
visualization I'm gonna guide it now for
you
sense that you are floating
in a galaxy
and you have a clear and Bright View
on Mother Earth
it feels at home
floating in this universe
and seeing
our Common Ground Mother Earth
you feel at peace
and deeply connected to this beautiful
planet
in A Sky Full of Stars
you can deeply feel you made this
journey before
and now you feel so grateful
to see planet Earth
from this perspective again
excitement
ecstasy
and Tears of Joy are felled over in this
privacy present moment
you feel a pool of Mother Earth
fooling you towards her body
and you can sharply feel and see all the
continents in the oceans
of Mother Earth
coming into your view
pulled more closely
you have a clear view on your own
continent
you see your country where you live
you see more sharply your province
and you zoomed in to your own City
you can feel your neighborhood
your neighborhoods you know so well
instantly you see your house
and the Interiors of your house the
inside the furniture
and you see your loved ones
sitting in your beautiful house
and then you sense your back in your
body
you can feel your skin
you can feel your organs here in your
bones
you are aware of your breath
you are aware of the heartbeat of your
beautiful heart
you feel instantly at home
the same feeling
when you watched Mother Earth
from above
what a journey
her journey
from Beyond
[Music]
nothing lasts forever
no one lives forever
the flower that Fades and dies
winter passes and spring comes
embrace the cycle of life that is the
greatest love
go beyond fear
[Music]
Beyond fear takes you into the place
where Love Grows
when you refuse to follow the impulses
of fear anger and revenge
beyond means to feel yourself
[Music]
Beyond
we need a repeated discipline a genuine
training to let go our old habits of
mine and to find and sustain a new way
of seeing go beyond the rights and the
wrongs
[Music]
prayer cleans the hand the hand brings
back peace to the soul
go beyond to feel the Oneness of the
unity
singing Take You Beyond
Beyond
we are all the same
same
looking to find our way back to the
source
to the one
to the only one
go beyond Revenge the greatest moment in
our lives is when we allow us to teach
[Music]
Unity
singing
singing takes you beyond
Beyond
take the journey
take the journey inside of you
to become quiet
here at the Beyond
to become patient to receive the Beyond
to become opened to invite the Beyond
and be grateful be grateful to allow
them Beyond
be in the present moment to live
in the Beyond
every day
Beyond
what does love have to do with it
love grows when you trust
when you trust love heals and renews
love inspires and empowers us to do
great things
and makes us a better person to love
love makes us feel safe and brings us
closer to God
when you go beyond
is where you find true love
singing
singing Take it takes you beyond
Beyond
[Music]
make connection to your breath again
deepen your breath
and take your own time to open up your
eyes
and going external
to all people who joined this Gathering
feel free to make some contact with the
people look at the thumbnails the faces
and before we're gonna introduce Chris
and Dwayne
I want to
thank you
um
for all the donations there are a
beautiful amount of the donations done
as a gift for the choosing life project
we're gonna hear more about it from from
Dwayne I think
uh so thank you for that and I also want
to take a moment to
introduce Mayo
my co-host during the wisdom keepers
every month and I want to say that also
Melanie
is one of the the hosts but she can't
contribute tonight because she has a
course running so
Mayo before we go to Dwayne and Chris
and we're going to open up please feel
free to share something from your site
your microphone is still off
um
everyone thank you so much for taking
the time for being here with us can you
hear me now
fantastic it is so important to have
these conversations within ourselves but
imagine the power of sharing our ideas
and connecting from a human stance
and these conversations although they're
mediated through this platform right
it's technology that is provided us this
sense of community even though we may be
continents away or as boss's beautiful
depiction of our neighborhood in our
house and wherever we may be
this what we are doing and what we just
did to that guided meditation is truly
Beyond it is combining our energies into
one Essence into this Consciousness so
it is so important to have this meeting
to have more conversations in your
neighborhoods with those around you
so that you can share your reality and
how we can co-create that reality
together so thank you so much for being
here we look forward to Growing With You
to having perhaps a a meeting that is
face to face one day a wisdom Keepers
face to face but for now let's sit tight
and enjoy the ride tonight's
competitions are going to be very much
expanding our universe into what we can
do as human beings here now and today so
that we can come together as one species
in order for us to thrive as a whole so
thank you so much for being here taking
the time
thank you Maya
um yes before we're going to start
um with Chris and Dwayne we're going to
introduce them of course and I'm going
to also
highlight why we are here together also
with Chris and Dwayne
um I invite you if you have the feeling
you want to write something down
something like a question something like
something coming up an emotion or
something you feel in your system
you want to write it down feel
comfortable to do so
um
it's handy at the second part of the
wisdom keeps Gathering that we have a q
a and a sharing part where these things
can be shared and feel open to do so and
feel that this environment is reliable
and you can trust this environment so
we're here with a good heart that's what
I want to say
we were gonna see if we're gonna use a
whiteboard to share all our information
or to have more like an integration of
uh the things coming up uh we're just
gonna feel uh organically if this is
going to happen so if I'm going to show
up a whiteboard I'm gonna explain how
we're gonna use the Whiteboard but we're
gonna see okay
um
before
um this idea of asking initially Chris
and afterwards Dwayne
came up as well in my mind in our minds
and it's it's a beautiful coincidence
they're both at this Gathering and would
like to introduce them both uh from from
the heart
um and From perspective but I want to
say something personal because since I
started I'm I'm I'm I'm a background
medical doctor
and ENT doctor train ENT doctor and then
I'm more like opening up which is I
think more like a calling into into life
more in uh Integrative Medicine
and now I'm into the Grove Legacy
training for uh trans person psychology
and psychedelic therapy and that's where
I met Chris
uh Chris I was at your beautiful course
from The Shift Network
LSD in the mind of the universe and it
opens something up about
how are we going to take care of this
planet and of this universe because it's
all integrated and it's all
uh it's a one life system or one or a
whole world system so that's
thank you for that that's what I want to
share personally and it
um until now and after my own
psychedelic experiences
it's getting deeper and deeper and feels
like we're creating a tribe where these
important things can be shared but it's
creating a mind shift by itself so thank
you for that
and maybe it's it's beautiful to start
with You Chris because the initial
Outreach for us
um via email to you and then Dwayne
craymond
uh Chris your professor
emeritus in the department of philosophy
and religious study and your
specialized in the buddhistic studies of
the Youngstown State University
but you're also related to the
California Institute of integral studies
and also
in the advisory Council of my training
Grove Legacy training uh I know you're
also related to The Institute of noetic
Sciences so you're you're not retired or
Emirates uh professor at all your full
uh alive and contributing to the Mind
shift which is which is happening
uh you're an author of several books uh
the latest
um it's on my desk every day and I would
really recommend
if you're not in LSD or you're not if
psychedelics you have to read it because
it's
it's very much important information
which is in the book you wrote several
books I'm not going to highlight them
all but LSD in the mind of the universe
your latest book
and for me it was transformative so
thank you for that
um
and in this book you described your
Empirical research you did it on your
own with your former wife
um with 76
deep
high-dose LSD sessions in which you
entered the the non-holiday states of
Consciousness and you encountered
a vision of our impending Global crisis
and also the birth of the future humans
so
these Visions are of importance
because this comes from a field which we
are not so much aware of it this is
beautiful information so thank you for
being here and thank you for
contributing to uh to this Gary
it's a pleasure to be here boss
and then Dwayne
um
during the course of Chris LSD in the
mind of the Universe
um you already mentioned Chris Dwayne's
work and after the course I went through
it
and your last book Dwayne
um choosing Earth was mind-blowing for
me it's so full of information
and you're an author of several books
which are all important for us humans
but choosing Earth and you can find
in the chat box already the link to
choosing Earth's website and also the
book and you can just download it by PDF
so thank you for that thank you for
opening up Dwayne
um in the early 70s you worked as a
senior staff of the member of the
presidential Congressional Commission
on the American future of
yeah of the of the the last
uh
30 years of the last century so the 70s
until 2000 an important position
and you were also acknowledged for this
deep work as a social visionary
exploring the deeper trends that are
transforming our world and you will
recognize for this for an international
award a peace award a recognition of
this this global vision and
consciousness of lifestyle that
contributes to our more sustainable and
spiritual culture so
it's an honor having you here
um
I would like to open up the field for
you both
to to start with our yeah main question
of the evening how can we create as
humans
um a new mindset
which
transforms our Global crisis or can we
can we transform the global crisis or
have do we have to go through it with a
new mindset so can we start from there
and then we'll see how the dance
will evolve thank you for being here you
both
it's a pleasure to be here everyone Buzz
thank you for the invitation
you hear my voice is a little rough I've
just come down with the cold
I would have canceled except this
material is just too important uh to let
go of the opportunity to talk about it
and I wouldn't pass up an opportunity to
to talk with Dwayne I'd have to be near
dead to pass up this opportunity we've
been friends for oh over 20 years 25
years now
and uh it was first our research and our
writing which brought us together
but then as we got to know each other
personally and understood the human
being behind the research the Friendship
has just deepened into a deep lifelong
Brotherhood
now
how Dwayne and I have thought about
today is basically first of all I want
to say a talk is just an opportunity to
get to the Q a because the Q a is where
the juice really is and I'm really
looking forward to that that part of our
discussion
and I know Dwayne is too
but in terms of the talk we see this as
basically a conversation an opportunity
for Dwayne and I just to to sink into
conversation and have the kind of
conversation that we have Sometimes When
We Get Together
um
and so I thought we might Begin by just
kind of affirming some common ground
that Dwayne and I share first on I'm a
philosopher of religion I've been an
academic all my life and in in Northeast
Ohio Dwayne is a a social activist a
Visionary social activist we've both
written books we've both been completely
committed to our lives project
and we both share coming at it through
overlapping means we both share I think
a common vision of the universe that can
be reached intellectually and can be
reached experientially and that is a
vision of the universe that is saturated
with intelligence orders and orders and
Orders of intelligence
and also the intelligence behind the
Manifest Universe the intelligence out
of which the universe sprang in the Big
Bang and continues to unfold and be
nourished by this fertile ground of
existence this is common ground for
Dwayne and I
also common ground is the sense that our
East our nature our Consciousness if you
just sit quietly or if you amplify
Consciousness if you sink into
Consciousness you sink into your
personal unconsciousness and then you
sink into what Jung call the collective
unconscious and if you just keep going
you sink eventually into a level levels
of consciousness so deep they go beyond
the species they go beyond time and
space and one can enter into deep
communion with I think what both of us
think of as the mind of the universe
both the Manifest universe and the
universe behind that manifests the
universe
and Dwayne and I both share the
conviction that this intelligence is
profoundly wise he asked me before we
got started how would you describe the
IQ of the universe boy that was that
stumped me for a bit and I had to think
in terms of an IQ on the order of
millions and billions because I mean
look at this is the the intelligence
which has manifested everything we see
around us as far as we can see and as
deep as we can see how could we possibly
measure the depth of that of that uh
intelligence
and compassion and that's a kind of gets
to the tricky Point part because it's
easy enough to see the the intelligence
when we just look at DNA and we look at
the structure of stars and galaxies we
can see layers and layers of
intelligence manifesting but compassion
on the surface life is hard
life is and one could easily conclude
and I understand you could conclude that
me life is basically generated by a mean
son of a I mean it hurts us so
much it it just hurts so terribly
and in order to see the wisdom of the
universe and to see the compassion
behind this the hard conditions in which
we live you have to look very deep
you have to look much deeper than
sensory Consciousness you have to much
deeper than the workings of the personal
and Collective psyche you really must
look very very deep deeply
I think it was ramakrishna when he was
asked
um
when he said once in order to see God
you must be willing to look evil in the
face
and in order to see the wisdom of the
universe
you must be willing to sit deeply
with the pain of existence
and there's nothing Dwayne or I will say
today that would dilute set aside
sublimate or in any way side step
the Deep suffering that it takes to live
fully an embodied spiritual existence
right
so this is just a warm-up exercise
and I what I want to do is toss it to
Dwayne and we're going to toss it back
and forth and then we're going to move
towards this topic of the times that
we're living in
the crisis that we are coming into
the depth of that crisis
and what we might do to move through
this crisis with courage and to actually
accelerate
our way through it so we can get through
it within with intelligence and with
compassion and
exploring
what the universe wants of humanity at
this hour what Humanity what the
universe is inviting Humanity to become
because both of us share the vision that
we are coming to a trigger point a
triggering point we're coming to a
bifurcation point where Humanity either
makes the next step
in its long evolutionary Journey
or we probably go extinct because we
can't survive on this planet in these
conditions
staying at the level of Consciousness
that has brought us here
we either grow up as Twain says or we
die
and that means this Extinction or
potential Extinction is an enormous
evolutionary accelerator
so with that let me hand it over to my
brother Dwayne
thank you brother Chris
uh Chris is one of my dearest dearest
brothers and friends and I am so
grateful for the lifelong uh the journey
that we've shared
with our mutual interests depth looking
at the nature of the universe and where
that is leading us as we move into this
dangerous and transformative time for
Humanity and creative time and the
um the passions that are
present are really come passions the
presence of suffering in the world is a
catalyst for our pushing back on
ourselves and Awakening freshly uh to
where we are and where we might be going
uh from here
so
um I appreciated boss saying that he was
a Doctor by training and early on in my
life I was going to become a doctor but
I encountered the violence of the
Vietnam era and I shifted over a period
of time from physical healing to now
social healing and uh that's one theme I
would really like to explore and
underneath the social healing is our
connection with the aliveness of a
living universe and that is where Chris
and I have found common ground and
common uh passion in our mutual
explorations of that possibility that
reality
so um let's let's begin Chris right
where do you want to start dig in
well um I think it's important just to
acknowledge where we are right now that
the crisis of transition isn't something
that's in the future it is happening
right now
um the head of the United Nations uh
recently said
um
humanity is on a climate Highway to Hell
we're on a climate Highway to Hell and
that's just looking at the climate
crisis uh we're also on a an
extraordinary uh path of extincting a
huge proportion of the plant and animal
species on this Earth it's estimated by
the end of this Century a million
species different species a million
species will be extinct we're
impoverishing the Earth right now it's
extraordinary
uh we're also in a time of overshoot
we're way uh overshooting the resource
base of the earth we can't continue as
we have it's estimated that the Earth
will carry roughly uh 2 billion people
uh into the far future and right now we
have eight billion people so if we take
that to heart it means that we're
roughly 6 billion people over the
carrying capacity of the earth and so we
are in for a rough ride a rough
initiation if you will moving from our
current condition of overshoot and
collapse the extinction of species the
climate catastrophe resource depletion
and all the rest
and come to some new healing and some
new healthy relationship uh with the
Earth and uh and our ability to live
into the far future
so that's a yeah let me ask you a
question that I know is on people's mind
and I know your answer to it I suspect
but the question is this can we avoid
this crisis now if we really get off our
butt and mobilize can we stop what's
happening and uh bring this under
control what do you think no it's uh too
late uh had we started a half century
ago when I began my research on all of
this in the early 1970s there was an
opportunity that time to pull back take
a look at where we were headed and
choose a new pathway but we have used up
that half century uh to just
consume ourselves into a corner if you
will and so now we're up against it and
we do have the forces the factors that I
was just mentioning overshoot of the
Earth's resource base a climate
catastrophe that's growing Reese uh the
species being extincted at an
extraordinary rate and so on and so on
now is the time for our decision now is
the time for choice and um so this is
where we're looking at at this not as
theoretically in the far future but as
right now we're up against it and and
now is the time for a new understanding
of who we are where are we who are we
where are we going from here those are
the core things we need to begin digging
into now not only philosophically but
but practically
realistically as a species so let's
begin that inquiry yes and the depth of
the destabilization that's coming at us
has already started we see a deep
unraveling in many areas of the social
fabric we see our political discourse
becoming increasingly polarized we're
moving in the direction of fascism on
one side uh totalitarianism on other
sides
repression of discourse denial of facts
of science it's getting harder and
harder to to assume any kind of common
ground which are all symptoms I think of
the fact that the ground is Shifting out
from underneath our feet it's like we're
in a slow-moving earthquake that's
building up year by year and it's just
shaking our systems to its foundations
and if you're if you just look at the
research as Dwayne has done and many of
you have done if you look at the
research you can just see that the
foundations of our culture are just
going are shaking beginning to shake
more and more and we're going to live
through this Our Generation my
children's generation your children's
generation your grandchildren's
generation it will still be deepening
during these decades ahead it's hard to
Envision just how bad
it's going to get
when I think about this
my heart explodes with pain
everyone I sit with who really looks
hard at the data their heart explodes in
pain and they would do anything
to not have to go through this but this
is what we're this is what we're going
into and that means I think it's
particularly important that we
understand what is happening that
because if we don't understand this at a
deep structural level if we don't
understand the evolutionary challenge
that we're facing we're going to give
way to despair we're going to give way
to
theodices which are which are really
deeply demonic and problematic we're
going to give way to a political
uh destructive philosophies
so we have to understand this deeply
I'll pass it to you brother yes okay
here's what I I have encountered over
the last oh roughly 40 years uh speaking
to people around the Earth
and often before I give a talk I will
ask an audience a Sim one simple
question
and the question is this if you look at
the entire Human family and you look at
our behaviors what is the life stage of
the Human family being expressed by
those behaviors and I give an audience
four possibilities one that we're
behaving like toddlers
two that were behaving like teenagers
like adolescents three that were
behaving like early adults and four like
Elders four possibilities toddlers
teenagers adults or elders
and I've asked this and I've been very
surprised that around the earth it
doesn't matter who I speak with it might
be a church group it might be a college
audience it might be a business
community and so on it doesn't matter
one response comes back again and again
and again roughly three quarters of
every audience I've spoken to over
decades has one response and they say
we're behaving like adolescents and like
teenagers there's no hesitation
regarding that that answer and so if we
are in our adolescent stage as a species
what will it take us to move then into
our early adulthood and in many ways
that's what we're looking at right now
the fire of initiation that will push us
into a new sense of ourselves a new
sense of of the universe in which we
live and a new sense importantly of The
evolutionary journey in which we're
involved
so
um that is one key framing for me it's
that we're in a rite of passage it's
it's a time of initiation of our species
and all the suffering all the pain that
we're experiencing right now as a part
of that pain that every adolescent as an
individual goes through in different
ways but nonetheless we we don't move
into our early adulthood without going
through the fire of initiation and so
okay let's accept that that is how
Evolution Works uh we are pushed outside
of the nest of our comfort zone and into
this transforming future and as an
extraordinary future
that lies before us and without a sense
of where we might be going we're going
to be reluctant to go there so one thing
I appreciate about Chris and his look at
his exploration of the birth of the
future human and my own work that's what
we're looking at what is the maturation
of the species about where does that
take us in terms of our relationship
with the universe our relationship with
other humans our relationship deeply
within ourselves so that's a
conversation that Chris and I have had
again and again over the years so clear
Chris
your turn
to give a deeper context to Dwayne's
observations I want to point to
his second book Awakening Earth
where he describes the the the stages of
human evolution in terms of the
conscious capacities or the levels of
consciousness that human beings have
evolved over our long evolutionary story
and I think if I have this right Dwayne
you correct me you say in the book and
by the way if you get the book read the
book start at the epilogue read the
epilogue first and then read the book
because the epilogue gives you the ex
experiential insight into where the book
came from
but late in the book he says we could go
through these last three evolutionary
stages in as little as 500 years
and given that we're talking about tens
and hundreds of thousands of years
leading up to that point we're talking
about that would represent an enormous
acceleration an exponential acceleration
that we're entering into so very intense
but exponentially sped up
yes Wayne indeed we're moving into a
time obviously of intense compression
this is going to be a heated Journey a
heated compression of humanity uh in the
fire of initiation that we're already
beginning to experience right now as we
look beyond our nation-state boundaries
to the Earth as a whole system and we're
seeing this will not hold this will not
carry us even to the end of this Century
so uh we are in compression times and we
are going to be pushed outside of our
our usual circumstances and uh and and
into new conditions as a species not
simply as Nations uh but as a species as
a whole and that's already beginning to
happen right now and so that will be the
Catalyst I think for Rapid acceleration
of The evolutionary potentials that are
already surfacing and and this Gathering
is one expression of that the rule of
psychedelics for example and being a
catalyst for awakening us to a new uh
domain of understanding of ourselves and
the human Journey so
um here we go as a species Into the Fire
and into the initiation and hopefully
into our higher Humanity yeah and in
that context I want to put on the table
one fundamental Axiom of my thought I
know Dwayne shares this Axiom and I
suspect probably everyone in this group
does too and that's the concept of
reincarnation and so this was my first
book
on which I chose to write on
reincarnation starting with the
empirical evidence which I believe is
just overwhelming and I came to this
conclusion as a philosopher of religion
so when I look at the world
and I see human beings
I don't see them the way that most
people see them I don't see old people
as old people and young people as young
people I tend to see souls and there are
old souls and small young bodies and
there are young souls in Old withered
bodies
but the important key here is
understanding that Evolution that
reincarnation is is a higher order of
evolution it's one of the fundamental
truths of a self-manifesting
self-evolving universe and so far we've
been telling the story of of
reincarnation
saturated by the perspective of
theologies and philosophies which have
been individually oriented so we tell
the story of reincarnation in terms of
individual Evolution the Soul's
Evolution over countless lifetimes the
Soul's Awakening eventually into
individual Enlightenment but it's
basically been strapped to a metaphysics
which focuses on individual
individual human beings and that's not
that that's false I think that's really
true but we're missing something deeply
if we think if we stop there
when we understand that not just we and
everyone we see around us is evolving
but every human being on the planet is a
reincarnating essence
then we begin to understand that
reincarnation is a collective driver it
is not just an individual driver it's
not just about personal salvation or
personal transformation it is an
evolutionary Drive of the highest
magnitude
and I'll shift just for a second and say
if you ever read my book diamonds from
heaven or as a publisher named it LSD in
the mind of the universe there's a
section there where I report I record
the experiences that kept opening up and
tearing me open
and showing me the entire universe the
entire species
pulsing in and out of time space every
hundred years or so just the entire
species pulsing and evolving together
all of our individual karmic agendas
being woven skillfully intelligently
into a collective karmic agenda and the
collective karmic agenda be informing
all of our individual karmic agendas so
that it became impossible
to separate the evolution of the
individual and the evolution of the
collective and that became one of the
fundamental core themes of my second
book Dark Knight early Dawn where I'm
talking about the Dark Knight not of the
individual soul of the indiv you know
the Dark Knight that the Mystic goes
through before Spiritual Awakening but
the dark night of our Collective Soul
so that we I began to understand for my
sessions that all of our individual work
serves not only our individual
development but it also serves directly
immediately
our Collective development and there are
no such things as personal problems
which are not also Collective problems
try and think of one
think of any personal issue that we may
be dealing with
and try to find one that isn't echoed or
reflective of a collective issue in our
culture so I'll just pause there
hand it back to you Dwayne well Chris
held up a book or two I you know I I
can't let that just pass without holding
up one of my own and it released very
directly to what Chris is speaking about
right now uh that a reincarnational
perspective how can that happen well
here's a book that I worked on for 30
years uh the living Universe uh the
universe uh according to modern science
and I have encountered this so many
times that is it considered non-living
at the foundation's dead at the
foundations and as far as modern
consumer Society is concerned it's all
this dead matter and empty space and
people like Chris beige come along and
they say wait a minute no I've I've
explored the deeper reaches of the
universe it's a living system in that
living system life can re
connect with itself it can evolve with
itself and reincarnation then is is not
losing the thread of our existence as we
move through multiple cycles of life in
this larger aliveness
so we can after a bit maybe begin to
explore the foundations of a living
universe and that perspective uh but I I
want to give Chris a chance to perhaps
integrate that connect the living
Universe with the uh evolution of life
through that living system
well in that context I just want to sort
of say something which is
hard and consoling at the same time
and that is from a reincarnational
perspective we're always popping into
time space and we pop out of time space
into a spiritual meta Universe we pop
back into time space we pop out of time
space and from this perspective what is
death
and all of the Enlightenment Traditions
all of the you know the The Awakening
Spiritual Awakening Traditions basically
say the same thing
birth is not the beginning of our life
look carefully and you will find in your
being in your physical body and in your
mind the evidence of a range of
experience that far predates your
physical body
death is not the end of our existence
because we now and particularly if you
study with people like Michael Newton
and his work and life between life and
past life therapy we have an abundance
of evidence that there is a continuity
of Consciousness that predates us and
post dates our individual life that we
so when we talk about the deaths that
are coming
I mean
we have to really relate to it at two
levels
and both of them are fundamentally true
and to diminish either of them I think
would diminish the truth of our
situation one of them is the death of a
human being is a painful horrendous
terrible experience
we are ending a life cycle every death
is the ending of a precious cycle of
life
and that hurts like hell
and then another perspective we can also
say that in a deeper perspective no one
dies Cycles end Cycles begin but the
Consciousness which is alive within that
organism within that being
is not extinguished
but simply paused
while we go home we recalibrate refresh
rejuvenate and then we enter back into
The Fray
so this is on the one hand consoling
because it tells us that death is not
the end
on the other hand if you look at it
really carefully it means that this
pattern
of leaving our loved ones behind and
coming back into new configurations and
leaving and coming back into new
configurations this very difficult and
demanding Dynamic of constantly
shredding in some ways the social fabric
the family fabric our individual fabric
is part of the ways that way that life's
works we have to look deeply to
understand and when we look deeply we
begin to sort of see that the Universe
thinks in very different terms than we
do
it thinks on a time frame much much
larger than we do it's just things on a
scale a completely higher order of scale
we have to learn to think as we have to
learn to think like a mountain we have
to learn to think like the universe we
have to learn to really kind of
think large and think deep and look at
every human being we see
as a precious soul
who is a companion
on this long journey whatever our
short-term relationship with them are
underneath
We Stand Together in this long
evolutionary trajectory
working for the collective good of our
planet of the entire Human family and if
people
don't have this commitment to the Human
family
if they have only a commitment to their
own personal life or they even their own
personal family understandable
but I feel sorry for them at a deeper
level
because to be committed to something
large is to is to activate and to
acknowledge that in ourselves which is
large
and therefore to be committed
to your species to be committed to your
generation to be committed to the planet
to be committed to the other forms of
life that share this planet with us
these are an expression
of a maturing soul
a young soul is small right a maturing
soul is large when we look at Gandhi
Martin Luther King great Souls which
hold large swaths of humanity
in their heart
those are the symptoms of a maturing
soul
right Gwen
well so well said Chris
um
that's a part of growing up a maturing
soul is to grow into the reality that we
do have a soul and to keep the fire in
the soul alive so that we can grow into
this future that you're speaking about
and I I I've often wondered why doesn't
the larger World recognize what we're
speaking about right here this is the
wisdom that's known through history and
and across cultures uh where is that uh
wisdom uh today and
um you know I'm I'm reminded from the
American Indian tradition of three
Miracles uh that's that's helped to
reveal this the first miracle is that
anything exists at all anything exists
at all that's a miracle the second
Miracle is that living things exist like
plants and animals and the third Miracle
is that living things exists that know
they exist and that have the capacity to
explore the nature of that existence now
we tend to get so enamored with the
third Miracle that's that really
elevates uh our capacities as a species
and we tend to then forget the first
miracle that anything is here at all
and one thing I appreciate about what
Chris is doing with his life and his
journey is not only speaking and
learning about
reincarnation and the individual soul or
and our and our movement through time
but also the nature of the universe that
would carry that process the first
miracle and uh one thing that we love to
explore is the nature of the first
miracle that the universe is itself a
living system and and we are beginning
the The evolutionary journey of learning
how to live in that larger aliveness now
that's an extraordinary transition from
living in a dead universe and it's
really dead matter empty space well what
do we have here nothing more than our
physical body a bit of uh biological
aliveness it's here for a short time
well what do we do with that emphasis
short well we consume as much as we can
to get as much pleasure as we can for a
short while before we're thrown into the
mystery of non-existence Chris is
talking about a different Journey he's
saying wait a minute wait a minute we're
alive we're deeply alive the universe is
a living system we're moving through
that larger aliveness and what we're
trying to do here is move beyond the
consumer Society that's over consuming
the earth move into a greater wisdom
that says look at who you are sure you
are a physical body but beyond the
physical body is the body of
Consciousness that lives in our living
universe and that's who you are more
deeply more profoundly and by growing
into that whether we encounter that
aliveness through the Psychedelic
Journey the meditative journey and so on
uh that is who we are at a more
foundational level and that is what
Chris is pointing to and that is what I
am working with as well with my own life
yeah you're pointing to me Dwayne but
you know come on brother you wrote the
book The Living Universe you're the one
who really really spent all those years
looking at the scientific evidence
trying to Marshal the kind of evidence
that would convince my atheistic
philosophy department where they just
reject all of this out of hand because
they're committed to a materialist
perspective and I'm presenting them
evidence for reincarnation they're
saying oh that's a nonsense because we
know it all reduces to brain and we know
where that comes from and you know
you're the one who took that on and you
just laid out this hammering the
evidence and the evidence and then also
drawing upon cross-cultural testimony
from multiple continents that are
basically testifying that to the deeper
mystery to the deeper intelligence which
we can experience yeah that's what my
philosophical con colonies you know
they're so skeptical about ooh
experience no no no no but it's like
come on I say let's Let's Get Serious
a philosophical Revolution begins with
the question
what is it possible for a human being to
experience
right yes yes they're telling me you
can't experience the things you say
you're experiencing and I'm telling them
come on I got we have a method we have
hundreds and hundreds of thousands of
people who have used this method of done
LLC Psychotherapy we've pushed these
boundaries we have long now longitudinal
studies that are showing us what happens
when people do these things you can't
dismiss that and say oh no that couldn't
be real because my metaphysical view
says matter is the only reality and
you're talking about things that are not
materially based right right
yes so you know you're knocking on their
door hard brother
I want to bring in
um look let's look Beyond philosophy
because that's thinking a lot Chris uh
let's look at the direct experience you
know the Psychedelic experiences direct
it's immediate you don't think about it
you're just overwhelmed with the direct
experience and encounter uh with life in
a different in a different mode or
different Manner and um so let me share
just in a briefly
um my experience in parapsychology
almost half a century ago the U.S
government began the very first research
by the government into psychic so-called
psychic potentials
um and to me they're not I don't like
the word psychic I like the word it's
alive and to what extent can we relate
to and experience the aliveness of the
living universe and what does that
reveal to us and there were two things
that came back after three years of
involvement in in-depth research there
at the engineering laboratory of the
Sanford Research Institute
um so I had the extraordinary
opportunity just extraordinary for over
a three-year period funded by NASA the
space agency to begin to explore our
intuitive capacities and they wanted to
know they said look if if there's an
astronaut on The Far Side of the Moon is
there any way to intuitively understand
their situation
uh can our intuition uh reach behind The
Far Side of the Moon and get valuable
and meaningful information about their
condition well that was the premise that
launched uh this three years of inquiry
that after uh three years I dropped out
because it was taken over by the CIA
because it was so compelling the
information coming back that it was
taken over by the Central Intelligence
Agency and it continued for another 20
years
so but in the first three years it was
public information and here's what was
learned from that
first is that uh there are two aspects
to our our intuitive potentials one that
we can receive information
uh Way Beyond uh what we can reach
through our uh normal perceptual
capacities of the physical body and then
secondly we can extend our our energetic
impact on the universe Way Beyond uh the
the close-in reach of our of our body as
well and so the receptive side was what
is sometimes called remote viewing and
that was interesting but the expressive
side which is sometimes called
psychokinesis a mind manifesting in
matter really took me into the realm of
a living universe and exploring the
Ecology of uh the living universe and
how we can do a dance uh with that
universe and and expands ourselves to
our really our the larger selves that we
actually inhabit and so we have a
physical body but that body is a an
anchor for an unbounded awareness an
unbounded Consciousness that reaches out
without bound into the larger universe
and Beyond and so we are bounded for a
short while then as Chris has mentioned
that boundary gives way we the body dies
with the Consciousness that was carried
along through the body does not it
migrates it moves into the into the
larger Realms of the universe and I
don't presume to know what where we're
going with that but I do presume to have
unshakable confidence that we are
learning to live in this larger
aliveness and that is the core Journey
uh that we're about right now as a
species and to the extent that we think
what we're doing here is is learning to
consume more so we can be happy with the
material things that we have we're
missing we're missing what this is all
about we're you this is a place to learn
about who we are beneath and behind and
Beyond the physical body to recognize
that we're a part of a journey of
aliveness that as Chris has said has had
infinitely deep Origins and that has
infinitely deep potentials moving into
the further uh future
boy do I want to jump on that hard I I
want to look at this idea of as we
develop our potentials as we make this
Turning Point as we kind of mature as a
species
what kind of human being are we becoming
what are the potentials that we are
activating and I think it's far far
beyond what we are seeing even in the
science fiction literature which so much
looks like cops and robbers in space you
know software beyond the traditional
pictures but I want to hold that for a
little bit
and I want to build up to that little
bit and so I'd like to up the ante in a
different way I'd like to talk more
directly about psychedelics you ready to
make that pivot sure okay
now this is something that both Dwayne
and I share and I suspect if we had a
show of hands we'd get a pretty high
showing of people who have used
psychedelics responsibly in this room as
part of their own personal History part
of their spiritual practice history just
as we if we ask people how many people
do yoga and I've done meditation we'd
have the same type of thing for our
generation psychedelics is part of the
the Arsenal of spiritual of not only
spiritual healing healing the soul but
uh becoming more aware of what our lives
are about and what life itself is about
so let me just speak personally for a
minute
I was brand new professor fresh out of
graduate school red Stan Groff's work
immediately I felt like I saw my life
vocation in front of me I had to do this
type of work it had been made illegal
this was 1978 right so it had been made
illegal in 1970. I loved teaching I
didn't want to lose my job so I
basically
developed us a sideline to my career I
was a traditional in many ways not I
hope not too traditional but I was an
academic I was teaching courses at the
University sitting on committees writing
papers doing all that stuff
but in my nighttime job I began a
systematic course of using
a psychedelic protocol that I inherited
from Stan Groff totally internalized
internalized sessions rigorous lying
down eye shades earphones sitter all
that stuff you know you know the drill
unwisely I will admit now I chose a
protocol after three sessions of working
with very high doses of LSD because I
was in a hurry and I thought this would
get me where I wanted to go faster I
thought it was about personal Awakening
personal Enlightenment yeah come on
they'll be harder but I'll burn off my
karma faster let's get there let's put
the metal to the pedal to the metal
let's go well I turned out turns out
that was completely wrong on so many
points the goal was not personal
Enlightenment and if you work with very
very high doses like I did and you do it
in a controlled burn situation in a very
carefully situation
when you start shattering the boundaries
within a few years I was dealing with
experiences where clearly
what was driving my sessions and what
was driving the purification and
transformational process in my sessions
was not my personal development it was
not my personal healing or my personal
transformation but my work had gotten
sucked into a larger historical drama of
our Collective development and so much
of the healing that took place in my
sessions were not about healing crispace
or even crispacia's soul but it was
trying to engage and heal some aspect of
the Human family and for years and years
has kept repeating itself entering deep
into
pains which are stored within the
collective Collective unconscious
Aggregates which are stored from all the
Wars all the all the unhealed traumas of
all the wars and all the abuse and all
the droughts and all the men versus
women violence and race versus race
violence and so on and so forth all of
that trauma which is not resolved at the
end of any one lifetime
is accumulating in the human psyche and
for us to make this evolutionary pivot
we have to heal Humanity we have to heal
the being which for me is a single being
the human species as a single being in
which we are all cells
in order for this entire being to make
the transition that Dwayne has talked
about from being an adolescent stage of
the Soul development into a mature adult
stage of Soul development we have to
heal and healing is the first step to
establish a New Foundation a new
platform where we can then download
deeper and more mature and richer energy
and light and insight from the universe
itself it's like we're we're too we're
too dumb we're too fragmented to be able
to take advantage of all the wisdom and
all the healing that's available to us
but as we heal this work as we do this
work then
we can take in more we can take in uh we
can take in more of the light of the
universe now I mentioned that just to
kind of a preface to where we go
when you start shattering the shells
that hold our awareness in their fixed
and narrow con confirmation we can
shatter a shell and usually the first
layers of shells people talk about ego
death right the death of our individual
Mind Body Experience then you wake up
into you are reborn into a deeper level
of Consciousness and if you push those
boundaries if you work steadily at those
boundaries eventually that process will
do the same type of purification process
you'll hit limits and you'll go through
yet another death in rebirth but it's
not ego death repeating itself it's a
deeper kind of dying it's a dying that
takes place at the species level it
brings you the rebirth that takes place
preaches you not into your soul level of
individual Awakening but into some
aspect of humanities
Awakening
if you continue to push hard at least
it's been my experience
that if you continue this process
diligently
and
we'll talk about what that means maybe
but if you do this work systematically
and you really take care of your body
and I don't recommend doing it the way I
did it because it's a lot of wear and
tear if I knew then what I know now I
wouldn't do it the same way again please
don't I do it differently I'd be gentler
but if you push like this if you keep on
pushing those boundaries
you begin to enter into a communion with
the intelligence that's within the
species that's driving the species and
it begins to teach you
it teaches you what's happening it
teaches you where humanity is going
now at this point I'll just inject one
point and I'm gonna
turn it over to Dwayne again
one of the things that began to happen
about I don't know
eight nine years into my work I began to
have a series of visions that just were
being poured into me and I I think of
Black Elk when I try to talk about this
because Black Elk when he was 12 years
old he had this Visionary experience of
the fate of the Lakota people
and it shook him so deeply you know he
he almost died he was out unconscious
for days and days when he came back he
was holding this Vision he was so shaken
he didn't talk about it for years
in my case I was downloading visions of
what appeared to be the fate of the
human species but it wasn't given to me
all at once it was being dropped in
peace and pieces over a series of
sessions stretched over years and but
the fundamental teaching kept repeating
itself and deepening itself and the
teaching was this
humanity is coming to a turning point
humanity is entering a very challenging
period but a time of profound spiritual
fruition we are entering a time that
would Mark the beginning and end
of History it's a truly an ethical
shifting experience we were coming into
a time when we would literally begin to
wake up collectively and it wasn't about
just individuals
this is a species-wide Awakening the
Dynamics are species-wide the time of
individual salvation is over
time of collective salvation is at our
doorstep right now
over and over and over again it was
saying this is the massive turning point
this is this is where we had been
building to this transition
for eons
it kept showing me
a future that was just ecstatic a future
if you can imagine
of our entire species
being a species of Buddhas and Christ
and Prophets totally awakened from the
soul of our Center
but in all these four years
never told me how we were going to get
there
I had no Insight given how we were going
to carry make this transition travel as
far as we had to travel
in as little time as all the research
was showing telling us that we had
because really right Extinction is
pressing down upon us and it's coming
hard and fast the crisis was moving in
on us right
now I share this with you because as
I've talked about this and it's in the
my book and in LLC in the mind of the
universe and as I've talked about this
I've had so many people come up to me
and say I've had the same kind of
Visions that's been showing me the same
thing in my deep meditation practice
we're coming to a turning point this is
a driving force this is a social
Collective for us so there's nothing
private there's nothing personal about
this experience it's not my unique
experience I'm simply witnessing to
something which many of us have been
experiencing
and I know that you've been experiencing
experience that type of material Dwayne
yes indeed yeah
well uh let me summarize from from my
perspective what we've been speaking
about
and uh three elements of the come up of
that summary uh we're
a world a species that's not really
recognizing what's going on here
um first of all we're not recognizing
the nature of the universe in which we
live uh the universe is a living system
and uh current sign says no it's this
dead matter in empty space and we're
ready to work with the material
dimensions of it all and so on and so on
but the deeper aliveness is not
recognized uh secondly we don't
recognize Who We Are
we think well okay we're biological
beings and this dead universe and we're
making the best of it in a consumer
society and no we're not recognizing
that we are part of that larger
aliveness and thirdly we're not
recognizing The evolutionary Journey
and and it's Dimensions that we've been
speaking about we think well uh we die
and the lights go out that must be
pretty much it and no uh we're going on
and on and on as Chris you've been
speaking about the reincarnational
universe uh we just need go on evolving
through it all so really the transition
that I see is first of all threefold uh
a new recognition of where we are is a
living system secondly a recognition of
of who we are as beings we're part of
that larger aliveness and thirdly where
we're going is Way Beyond uh consumerism
and such it's learning to live in that
larger aliveness what an extraordinary
Journey uh that we would be blessed with
the gift of entering into that kind of
Journey and you were bringing up the
good the question Chris well how in the
world do we make the transition the
threefold transit
uh and understanding the universe
freshly who we are freshly and where
we're going
well
um
a lot of attention is being put right
now on material systems uh well it's a
climate crisis so that means too much
CO2 in the air which means well we got
to cut back on on the cars that we drive
and so on it's a material response to a
trans material challenge before us and
so um again and again people will say
well what are you going to do about it
and what one of the key things I've been
working on for decades is media and why
media a media isn't that the problem
we've got so much media it's consu is
hypnotizing us into a materialistic
mindset and all we have to show for it
is more consumerism no this goes way
beyond that because the mass media is
the access to the mass mind here we are
on on a call with people in different
parts of the world right now and we're
beginning to grow uh the the
neurological structures of the species
as we use the mass media that we have
right here to speak with one another and
to grow a new understanding a new
consensus a new consciousness of who we
are as a species so one of the critical
elements I feel of a transforming future
is to transform our uses of media and
this Gathering now is an example and it
there are so many more we're exploding
into a new opportunity to use the media
to reflect to use it to reflect on who
are we and then to communicate back well
I've seen that mirror and myself in that
mirror and I see a new possibility out
there and let's begin to evolve into
that possibility so we're on the cusp
we're on the brink we're on the
threshold of using the the extraordinary
media potentials that are out there
right now two-thirds of the people on
this planet
have one of these things a cell phone
two-thirds of the people on the planet
all we have to do is pick up that cell
phone and we have access to a majority
of people on this planet by the end of
this decade it'll be three quarters of
the people on this planet have access to
the to the uh Collective Mind through
one of these so we are over and down
right now with the with the tools the
capacities to communicate with one
another and to and to grow into a new
Collective Consciousness uh of of those
three dimensions of transformation that
were just right on the threshold of
pushing against and uh the rules pushing
back against us and so it's a learning
time for the species it's an Awakening
time a learning time a growing time and
we're way over endowed with all the
tools we need to go through that
Learning Journey yeah
this is one area where our work is
complementary to the other
because you are a deeply committed
lifelong committed social activists and
you understand in ways that go beyond me
far beyond my understanding of how
this how social transformation can take
place what are the roots that are
holding us stuck where are the where are
the opportunities for facilitating deep
social change at a collective level at a
practical tangible manifest level
my work has been much more internally
focused so let me speak to the inside of
this process because while my
psychedelic experience has been deeply
Collective it takes place in one room
you know in one house in on one street
so it's it's a very different way to
access the collective
let me tell you the next installment or
just point to the next installment into
my own Journey
personal death rebirth went through that
Collective death rebirth went through
that began to have these Visionary
experiences of where the human species
was being taken of this in extraordinary
future no explanation of how we were
going to get there
carried me then passed that into
a series of profound mystical
experiences of non-duality and shunyata
emptiness and you know sort of deep
ecstatic Joy then it took me into the
diamond Luminosity work which occupied
the last five years of my work and in
the middle of those of those Diamond new
velocity sessions where I was expecting
fully to be returned because I was
coming back into the diamond Luminosity
about once a year about every five
sessions purified purified purify bam
Diamond Luminosity purify purify purify
boom more but I'm in luminosity
and I was about I was expecting about
time to get back into the diamond
luminosity
but that's not what happened in what was
my 55th session in 1995 coming up on
what almost what 24 23 years ago
I went through a process where I
dissolved completely into the species I
just I became hard to imagine but
hard to describe I became dissolved into
the collective unconscious so deeply
that my individual Consciousness was
basically just a slow remnant
and I entered into what I call Deep time
I'd gone beyond linear time many times
before this dissolved me very very
deeply into deep time so I was it was a
trans temporal experience so I had
exploded the boundaries it was
transpatial experience it was a trans
temporal experience and it took me into
the future
deeper than I had been taken up to that
time
and suddenly I began to experience
systematically methodically
clear Isabel I began to experience the
death and Rebirth of the Human family
it was like being able to experience a
thunderstorm where you can see the
patterns you experience the patterns of
the storm as a whole and you experience
all of the individual drops in the storm
simultaneously so it's a both an
aggregate but also Collective and I
experienced the entire Human family
moving into a period of crisis
the ordinary structures of our world
were being broken down and Stripped Away
we were losing control we were being
shattered civilization was being
shattered lives were being torn apart it
was just extraordinarily painful the
whole Human family was being shoved to
the edge of apparent Extinction
and is built and built for a long time
in the session
and then just when it looked like that
was it this was it we were coming to the
end of it all it was like a hurricane
passing over an island
and the worst of the storm passed and
things began to get lighter they began
to get lighter people began to pick
themselves up we began to find each
other after this and many many people
had died
but many survived and as we began to
survive
we realized we discovered that we had
been changed
this crisis tapped us into something so
deep it drove us so deep into our being
that it opened it unlocks something in
us we shed things we we just literally
we had stripped from us all sorts of
assumptions and accumulations
that tapped us into what I came over
time to think of as the one heart
that all of our individual hearts are
aspects of the one heart
when we began to
find each other and meet each other
there was a there was a creativity that
was catalyzing new social forms new
forms of cultural creativity and this
created feedback loops where creativity
fed new creativity and there was an
exponential in growth in levels of
awareness that were grounded in new
values new perceptions of the good new
understandings of human nature new
understandings of nature itself new
understandings of the Divine
foreign this is what I think of what I
came to see was this was a forecast not
a forecast because I was in deep time
which means I experienced this
transformation from the perspective in
which it was already happening
and in the end I experienced it as
something that had already happened
and something that was yet to happen it
was this not confusing but the kind of
both and experience that sometimes opens
in very deep psychedelic experience
it took me about a year to recover from
this one session
what I the way I put in the book is when
I walked around my town in Ohio
and I saw all these beautiful beings all
these Souls who did not consciously at
an individual level know what they were
coming into
but I knew that at a soul level they
knew what they were getting into at a
soul level they had chosen to Incarnate
at this time in history I just felt
myself surrounded by courageous Souls
who were entering consciously into this
very very intense Century of
transformation it was like walking
around Hiroshima the week before the
bomb dropped
everyone around me I saw was entering
into this terrible Catalyst of pain
and yet they were deep and profound
spiritual Warriors
it took me a long time to learn how to
live with that to hold that
but I did and eventually I brought it
into dark night early Dawn and then I
brought it more fully into LSD in the
mind of the universe
and that's a perspective that I know I
share with you Dwayne yeah it's
interesting yeah yeah
um as as a long time uh social activist
and such I want to bring a another note
into our conversation before we we
conclude
and that is
um there are no guarantees here uh we've
seen uh the possibilities we've seen the
potential we've felt it in our souls and
our bones and our being we know that's
possible but there's no guarantee we're
going to realize that as a species
um
as I look at the world I see three great
possibilities for our pathway ahead one
is what we've just been speaking about
uh extraordinary invitation uh into
greater aliveness and and possibility
but there are two other possibilities
that are very very real uh one is the
future of a collapse and and really the
functional extension of the species not
their complete Extinction but the
functional Extinction were no longer a
force and evolution on the earth nor are
we connected well enough with one
another to make a difference in our
Collective lives and build the kind of
species body that you're speaking about
Chris uh that we could end up just so
fragmented and so diminished that we
never have the opportunity to uh pull
that species body together in its
Learning Potentials that's the second
possibility a third possibility very
real uh we can see now is the authoritar
Aryan future we can see that in in
Russia we can see it in China we can see
it beginning in India and other parts of
the world we can see it in the United
States for heaven's sakes the
authoritarian
uh
orientation is so strong people are
ready to surrender their freedoms and
what you're speaking about and what I'm
speaking about is claim your freedom
claim your freedom to be a a living
participant in a living Universe grow
into that freedom don't surrender it to
the uh to the scientists that look at
only a material Universe don't surrender
it to the media and the politicians that
say no it's just about more and more
material well-being for all people on
the planet there are three great paths
before us and the one that you've been
speaking about and then that I have as
well is is a narrow pathway I feel into
the future and we're going to have to do
everything we can as a community not
just as individuals but as you say Chris
as a community to elevate ourselves so
awaken ourselves to grow into that uh
future of evolutionary potential to
learn to live in that larger aliveness
so bless your brother and I thank you so
much for your life of contribution and
service and that and and that future
yeah and you true brother me before as
we transition soon into questions and
answers which is going to take us into a
whole other
Journey right with us here
I have the view and I think Dwayne
shares this view that we have entered
this century is a century of Labor
we have been gestating the future human
from millennia
for tens of thousands hundreds of
thousands of years we've been gestating
it through reincarnation over and over
deeper and deeper but now we've come
into labor
gestation is long
labor is short
gestation can be gentle and take place
while we can keep other things going on
on the surface
labor is not like that is it labor is
intense it requires complete
Interruption of Life as we have
ordinarily experienced it and we turn
deeply within and we are in the process
of giving birth to
collectively well I'm calling the future
human many people have seen this they've
felt it they give it different names
homo spiritualists homo noeticus all
sorts of different names but the
fundamental idea is that we are giving
birth to a different kind of human being
a different level a different a more
evolved form of humanity
foreign
what might this future human look like
what is the what is the substance of the
future human
and here I I go back to the theme of
reincarnation I go back to some of the
experiences that I describe in LSD in
the mind of the universe and there was
you know I've done past life therapy
before when I wasn't doing the LSD work
and I I know about I've been
familiarized with about a dozen of my
former lives nothing special no one
special just ordinary run-of-the-mill
peasants for the most part but I had a
sense of that you know but what happened
in this particular session is that all
my former lives began to come back into
me
they all just started coming in very
fast and furious I'd already gone
through a tremendous purification
process and the death rebirth process
but then these lives started coming into
me it was like wrapping uh filaments of
light
around a kite spool
each rap was one life
and at a certain point they hit critical
mass
and when they hit critical mass there
was an explosion of energy
and I've experienced this explosion of
diamond light blow out my chest
catapulting me into a completely new
State of Consciousness and all those
individual lies fused into one into a
singularity
and then a teaching kept on folding and
explaining what was going on first the
experiences then The Illuminating of the
experience but the basic Vision that
emerges is this
it's a different vision of human of
reincarnation than we find in many of
the Eastern cultures the classical view
of reincarnation is okay reincarnate
reincarnate reincarnate
get better and better more compassionate
more intelligent more this more that
growing level by level by level and when
you achieve enlightenment when you
achieve a realization that you can
understand and let your mind sink into
the essence of its source and you come
to that shattering realization that the
essence of your life
is absolute is exactly the same as the
essence of everybody else's life and the
essence of life itself you know Atman is
Brahman yes our nature is our Buddha
nature when we reach that point
classic thinking is okay now we can
leave
you've achieved Enlightenment you have
achieved Moksha Escape you no longer
have to be entrapped with an ego but you
no longer have to be entrapped within
time and space you have permission to
leave your work is done
but that's not what came forward in my
sessions
what came forward in my session was the
birth of the diamond soul
which meant that which was the
phenomenon that we are reaching a point
in human evolution where we have we have
been working and integrating and and
getting rid of all of our negative Karma
purifying ourselves healing
relationships healing the scars which
had been torn into our heart healing the
social scars healing the the
civilizational scars we're working and
working that material there Comes A Time
when our entire history
begins to coalesce in the early stages
of that coalescing often takes a form of
healing purifying dealing cleaning out
the basement so on and so forth but
there comes a point when that work is
done and all of those lives congeal and
there is an explosion of Consciousness
where we no longer experience ourselves
as a one generational time space 100
year old being
we experience ourselves as a hundred
thousand year old being we experience
ourselves as Souls
and not a human being with a soul we
experience what a human being actually
is we experience ourselves as souls and
this is what I call the birth of the
diamond soul
because we often tend to use the word
Soul as the spiritual non-embod the
non-physical counterpart to our
individual personality that's not the
soul I'm talking about
I'm talking about the Consciousness that
holds all of our farmer lives all of
them as one and now what I think is
happening is
usually we experience that diamond Soul
only after we die
you know we go small to big when we die
ah yeah
come back to small we grow some more
then we die ah yes it feels so good to
be big again
but what's happening I think if we keep
that up
just keep it up long enough
sooner or later
the soul wakes up
inside physical existence
and when that happens heaven
manifests on earth when that happens
Nirvana is samsara
when that happens we realize we don't
have to go anywhere to experience
absolute Bliss and sheer Joy
the goal of evolution of spiritual
evolution is not to spiritually
mature and then leave
I understand where that view came from I
understand its historical context it
makes perfect sense within the context
of 5 000 years ago before we understood
how old the universe was how big it was
and how much intelligence had been sunk
into building this universe
the goal of our spiritual evolution is
to
awaken
to truly awaken to our soul
Consciousness which opens us into a
different relationship with all other
beings with whom we share this planet
and opens us into a different
relationship to the intelligence that is
manifesting time and space continuously
regenerating it
the goal is to awaken to that to embody
that in our physical being not a
disembodied transcendental Awakening but
an embodied Awakening
and then to bring that Consciousness
into the making of History into the
making of the planet into the making of
a civilization a world which truly does
work for all
you're here how far can we take this
what will it look like it's not going to
look like just what it looks like in the
very beginning stages
what our spiritual Traditions have told
us over and over again is that mind
creates our destiny as the Mind leads
Destiny follows we are creating our
reality with our mind when our mind is
fragmented and conflicted we live in a
fragmented and conflicted reality now
this is we have to be careful this is
not simply an individual story it's a
collective story there's a dynamic
feedback between our individual
manifestation our Collective
manifestation you know but basically
we are learning I think how to control
the nuclear energy which is the soul the
fiery energy light energy which is our
essential Divine energy cosmic energy we
are learning how to be gods and I don't
mean that in any superficial sense we
are evolving into a being which truly
not only will be at peace with ourselves
and at Harmony with each other
but a being which has capacity to
manifest
creativity inside time and space
the likes of which maybe today we only
know in the mystical literature and the
spiritual literature what the Tibetans
call the mahasidas the great beings the
great beings around who have the
capacity to work miracles they have the
capacity to manifest Consciousness in
ways that absolutely
Dazzle our mind and don't make any sense
within a materialist scientific
perspective because they have gathered
so much conscious power
that they can Manifest this in a way
that bends the laws of physics so to
speak and not I suspect what they're
doing is manifesting a deeper set of
laws of physics that are manifest at a
lower energy level this is high energy
physics yeah
so I think we're coming we're giving
birth to the Future human we're giving
we're maturing we're growing into a
mature adult and if we ask well what
does a mature adult look like it's not
simply a human being the way we are now
with higher values and better values
it's truly an awakened human being a
soul-centered human being that lives at
peace with themselves and at peace with
each other and now we pivot
and of course this isn't the this isn't
the end of the story right
let's assume for the minute we make this
transition one century two centuries
three centuries we make this transition
Universe isn't stopping right we're
going to be here for millions billions
of years right we have at least four
billion years before the sun goes
Supernova we got to be off the planet
about two billion years that's a lot of
time
you're going this is just the beginning
of a transition we're just waking up
we're like children in the crib created
by the universe waking up into this
beautiful room we're just waking up to
what we are who we are activating our
potential and moving on moving forward
that now I I believe with Dwayne that
he's right
no there's no guarantees here
this is
we have to put we have to
everybody show up everybody has to
maximize everything they can do to
possibly to make this to get us through
this to bring us through this whole
transition I understand that and I
accept that and I think that's true
but I also would like to offer you a
slightly different perspective
from within my psychedelics experience
and I don't know how to reconcile these
two but from within my psychedelic
experience I've been taken so deep into
the future so many times
and then my last deep Vision the 70th
session was my last what I called it the
great Visions deep into the future
and from that deep future I experience
this transformation as a given as
something that we had accomplished not
something that was an open-ended
possibility but something which we had
truly accomplished
so from my own personal heart
I cannot doubt that we will make this
transition
I worry deeply about what it's going to
cost us how many of our children will
die how many of our world's children
will die of starvation and
you we know what's coming in that way
that's what I'm worried about
and it's going to take every one of us
at maximum
exertion to really pull this off and yet
we're not driving this right human
beings are not driving this
nature is driving this the creative
intelligence of nature is driving this
we didn't give ourselves the big brain a
hundred thousand years ago
we didn't give ourselves The
evolutionary qualities that are embodied
in ourselves and our mind and in our
physical body some larger process is
driving this process the most we can do
is cooperate with it to recognize to
wake up to see what's happening
cooperate with it and to become a
collaborator a co-creator
of this future human
which we will then in our future
incarnations incarnate into but I think
the shift that we're seeing taking place
it's grinding its way forward is a shift
in the plate tectonics of the collective
psyche it's a shift at the very very
deep structure that after we make this
shift every human being born
will be operating out of a different
Collective psyche
out of a different level of Soul
awareness and that's the work of the
hour that's what we and we all knew we
were getting into this when we were born
we chose to be part of this process and
with that knowledge we can relax
even while we go to work
we can relax in that deeper way of
taking spiritual nurturance from the
universe even as we go to work and do
our best
yeah
so brother let's open it up and see what
these good people uh where they want to
go yeah thank you brother this has been
a delight to share this this hour with
you and
um I'm so deeply grateful I just want to
say for our friendship over these
decades bless you yeah likewise brother
yeah
as as said
from this place what an amazing
deep words it's not about the words
about the Energy felt during your dance
um it's transformative by itself so I'm
I'm really I'm really honored by these
words
and I have thousands questions that I
said off your course Chris
I gained thousand questions more and now
I got 2 000 questions
but concerning the time I want to open
up your the microphone for
um the fellow the the fellow wisdom
keepers
uh people have questions sharings uh
whatever comes up
wants to be shared now is the time and
the place
and our questions as hosts will come
maybe at the end so
um if you have a question if you have
want something to share just open up
your microphone
and feel comfortable to uh to uh to go
I see Todd has got his hand raised
well it is lovely to see you both and I
would offer that your conjoined Synergy
is part of that love that um gives us
great optimism for future I'm a
painfully optimistic sort because of
having tasted that unconditional love
and that complexity that's about and so
I my Optical
unchanged though we do know there's a
collective great nde coming for the
species but the transformative power is
wonderful just to offer some of the
small kernels that I see changing is
just the fact that we're talking about
you know psychedelics are not a Panacea
for every individual but they are so
quickly entering a wider conversation
and to me that's going to be one of the
essential tools to help change the
Consciousness individually and then of
course collectively just as one tiny
little nugget um I received email
yesterday of a group and some of the
folks I know that are deeply thoughtful
and deeply committed toward a whole list
understanding of existence and they're
putting together leadership schools with
a psychedelic component to those with a
cohort goes through thinks deeply about
all the things that you know a planetary
holistic Universal idea but with the aid
of having that transformative Discovery
within and then going forth all together
to a with a greater understanding and to
me that's was unheard of just a few few
years ago let alone a decade or two and
so for those to me are those moments of
showing that there are so many folks
working toward a greater understanding
that that will get here even though
there's going to be great pain before
that's manifested on a wider scale so
anyway thank you for your work and I
share your optimism and it's unshakable
damn it
and how could we not mention this great
book by Dwayne choosing Earth and
there's a film that he and Colleen have
created there's a course which they have
created there are no number initiatives
and Grant I'll let you talk about this
but this is an extraordinarily powerful
book and one of the things I love about
it he's given it away it's like too
important to try to make any money off
it he's been giving it away and if you
get it in the PDF form
all the references are hot linked
so you can pop right right right into
one article after another one Research
Institute after another it's all hot
linked and you can move right into it
and go very deeply
Dwayne
uh the one thing I would say
moderating my optimism this book looks
uh oh 60 70 years into the future and
I've been doing Futures research for a
half century truly and uh this book is
the accumulation of that half century of
work
and
um
I want to be optimistic but boy I'll
tell you uh it's Fierce the world is
coming down on us now not 10 years from
now but no
um and we could run through the elements
once again but the reality is we're up
against it now and it requires our
courage now it requires our our
Collective Consciousness now it requires
a new media to reflect back to us new
possibilities new priorities New
Perspectives on on where we are who we
are where we're going now so to the
extent that there are people watching
and this program now
get on with your work get on with your
life choose the freedom that you have
off your creativity to our wounded world
to move into this more transforming
future so
um
thank you you bet yeah I see a hand of
uh Henrik you can open up your mind
please
hey thank you
um
so I uh came here as someone who's
curious and uh so I am going to ask a
question at the risk of sounding
flippant
because I obviously don't have the
experience that
the three of you have
um but I'm just going to ask this
question from a position of curiosity
and
trying to get some clarity so I've heard
a lot of things
um reincarnation Karma you know the path
of the soul is taking the path of
humanity going forward uh we come from a
source in intelligence uh
and it sounds like it's a very profound
world view right and I I came from a
Christian worldview I am no longer in
that world
um and my question is
what makes you guys so convinced this is
actually a reality or this is actually
true and it's not just the LSD messing
with your heads to be I told you I was
gonna be flipping but you guys
absolutely good question Lauren
absolutely thank you I'll take a shot
Dwayne then you take a shot yeah okay
Ken ring founder of near-death episode
studies founder of the Journal of
near-death studies uh good friend long
friend he and I he yes in question of
being acid Harden pushed it hard and uh
we had a back and forth dialogue and it
was so rich we decided we'd publish it
so if you were to go to medium.com
there's an article that you can track
down by that it's a knit it's a dialogue
between Ken and I and the title is our
deep psychedelic experiences trustable
how do we know that I'm just not picking
up on The Echoes of my personal mind or
I'm picking up Echoes of the collective
psyche are there criteria that we can
use to evaluate these experiences and I
just lay it out as clearly as I can Ken
punches at me I respond it's a good
dialogue it's a really important
question are they trustable right uh
there's not a simple answer to that
question you really have to kind of take
it and look at it deeply as you go
through it because it's not enough to
say experientially they're trustable
there has to be more meat on those bones
it has to be more more substances and I
think there is I think we do have some
empirical evidence that these
experiences are verifiable and are
trustworthy some of them not all of them
but then there are other ones which
begin to look at
cross-disciplinary
coherence that adds another layer of
trustability
it's yeah it's an important question
what I would emphasize is that I would
never say the things that I said today
if I were speaking 30 years ago
now
because
if you take a look at my scholarship and
I know Dwayne scholarship it's not just
that we're sharing ex Visionary
experiences we've done our homework I
don't offer reincarnation as a
philosophical or theoretical perspective
or based on an experiential perspective
I did my homework I looked at all the
available evidence for reincarnation I
looked deeply at Stan gross work and the
available evidence and support of the of
the hypotheses and the cosmology that
he's presented in many of his books so
it's a combination
of rigorous scholarship
which has lots of different aspects to
it and then carefully recorded uh
offered
psychedelic experiences and what we find
of course is there's a the cosmology
that emerges in psychedelic work is
essentially the same as the cosmology
that emerges in other deep
contemplative mystical Traditions it's
not a new cosmology it's simply a new
way of accessing
that same fundamental Court worldview
yeah Dwayne yep let's see that's a
really important question uh really
important and
um I raised you know the book The Living
Universe I spent 30 years looking across
cultures uh through different dimensions
of Science and so on to ask that
question is there any agreement as we
look around the world through different
wisdom Traditions that this is the
nature of reality or am I just
fantasizing that we're living in this
living entity well indeed there's a very
strong consensus and
um a surprisingly strong consensus
um and if we had more time I would love
to get into that so first of all
um if we look at the world's wisdom
Traditions there is a growing consensus
about the nature of reality human
identity and The evolutionary Journey
secondly if you want other evidence
um as I said I spent three years in in a
laboratory setting with experiment after
experiment exploring the intuitive
potentials of the human being and that's
those are the potentials that are
required for us to reach into the larger
universe and draw into ourselves the
insights that Christians so beautifully
spoken of and I assure you that the CIA
would not continue the intelligence
agency would not continue this work for
20 years after uh they declared it
secret they went for another 20 years
unless they were getting meaningful
validated scientific information about
our expanded capacities as human beings
so we can go to different sources of of
validation and verification but it's
there but we're just beginning to
accumulate that evidence uh no and that
is now being presented to to us and and
whether through the Psychedelic vehicle
or through the meditation experiences
and so on uh but it the the evidence is
there and um uh beautiful question
though thank you yeah
and in addition to that article by Ken
and I that dialogue uh you'll see a
reference there and you can find it at
my website chrisbase.com and you can
also see it in academia.edu where I've
I've put a lot of my major articles
posted you just look up Chris Bish there
and there's a section from the first
chapter of dark night early Dawn which
really drills down on this question and
the section is called the epistemic
value of psychedelic experience right
the epistemological value and I really
lean on that and hard so yeah important
question yeah
I appreciate your your answers thank you
very much
and uh for Sue
please open up your microphone
okay
I just want to say a huge thank you to
both Chris and Dwayne because I think
they have the most enormous courage and
I feel encouraged
to face whatever it is that may be
coming our way because they have the
courage to go there and detail both
Chris through I've read your book so I I
know the detail of how much pain you
know Collective human or other human
human pain that you went through and I
just think yeah to have kept going with
that we've kept going is absolutely
amazing so thank you and for Dwayne to
look into the future to see really the
terrifying prospects there and still to
you know be encouraging us and going
forward
so I just wanted to say I wonder whether
there are collective Consciousness has
gone down rather than up which with
reincarnation the idea is that you learn
something you come back but I personally
I feel that the goddess culture is going
back to pre-history had a lot of very
high Consciousness going on you know
minoan civilizations
Etc and I kind of feel that through our
materialism our Consciousness has has
kind of gone down become more limited so
I suppose I wonder whether the idea of
reincarnation taking us forward how that
could fit to a a kind of decline in in
Consciousness and and awareness of who
we are in a living Universe because I
think there were cultures in previous
times that had that sorry I'm going a
bit crazy on this thing on my screen
stop but um so just I'll be interested
in what you thought about that
brain you want to start on this one and
I have a very simple uh response to that
uh we have just become a collective
species civilization only in the last
few decades uh with with the growth of
the mass media uh in the post post World
War II era we are becoming a collective
entity a collective being if you will
that's not to diminish the the
wakefulness of earlier uh people and
civilizations but it's rather to
recognize this is a new Epoch a new era
a new condition of the whole Human
family being pushed together by multiple
crises the you know we went down the
list the climate crisis the species
exhibition all the rest we are being
compressed and squeezed as a species to
awaken in a new way though and we did
not have those pressures in earlier
times at a planetary scale and that's
where we are now so this is a very
unique situation it's not to diminish
the past but it's rather to awaken to
the challenges of the future
I'd suggest a very simple analogy it you
can look at it in the context of
meditation but also in the concept of
physiology if you fast for health if you
go through an extended fast a safe fast
and you're doing so for health what we
find is that after a day or two you
begin to have all sorts of flu-like
symptoms you know you just feel
miserable you feel terrible your nose is
running and all this stuff and then
after several days you move through that
and then you enter a period where you
begin to feel better than you had when
you started same thing happens in
meditation you meditate in order to feel
better so you quiet your mind you get
very still you fast your mind and what
happens your unconscious begins to throw
up all its garbage I mean it's just all
the pain start coming up and all the
emotions start coming up and you think
what the hell why this is getting worse
not better but if you hold it it event
actually works its way through and you
begin to move into a deeper State a
sense of well-being
understanding that reincarnation
is happening not just individually but
it's happening collectively one of the
ways of understanding some of the rhythm
of the epics that we've moving into or
have been moving into is that Humanity
has begun to detoxify itself
literally I think souls are taking into
their incarnations into their current
incarnations and it has been for some
time
more karma than they might have in
earlier Generations in earlier centuries
they are literally stacking up more
Collective and individual Karma to work
on in their lifetime and if you looked
at this only from the outside you would
think that these we are kind of
devolving because we're dealing with
more and more basic problems and more
Elemental problems
but again from an evolutionary
perspective If We Hold this if we hold a
perspective like on meditation like on
fasting we are clearing this past
humanity is clearing its path and it
looks maybe like things are getting
worse but I think what it is is we're
getting down to business we're getting
onto some serious business and we are
healing that past but the only way to
heal that past is to confront it is to
let it into your awareness we heal the
past by expanding our Consciousness and
embracing the consciousness of it and
likewise socially manifesting states of
states of awareness in our culture where
we heal the racism we heal the genderism
we heal the speciesism by holding that
in our awareness and saying no we're not
going to do that anymore we're not going
to rape our daughters anymore we're not
going to behave towards people of other
cultures and other colors the way we've
done in the past we're going to move
into this into a better world so it is a
complex picture but I think from a deep
enough perspective it can begin to make
more sense you
okay
I would like to add something as a
holistic doctor as well because from a
biological perspective
um as you see our brain developments
during Evolution I think trauma has a
major effect especially the collective
trauma which made us during Evolution
less receptive for the collective view
instead of
um
yeah seeing live is separate and we're
now
waking up of these
um Collective trauma and the healing as
you said so I think there are several
aspects which are very
coming together on a biological but also
in the social but on spiritual level
which comes together which give us
deeper insights at these
evolutionary swings during our last
decade so
thank you
um but David uh saw a hand of you
please open up your microphone David
you're not
Audible
New York yeah I'm okay now
yeah I want to thank you both so so much
that we're so moving and I want us to be
moved tonight I mean out of this I want
us to be taking some action I'm
80 now I know I'm in the Final Phase of
my life it might go on 20 years or
whatever whichever way you look at the
mathematics I'm in the Final Phase of my
life I don't have children so I haven't
passed on
genes but I've been thinking recently it
isn't only
jeans at this moment the important thing
is passing on memes I'm going back to
Richard Dawkins original formulation of
that he was looking for
um a sociological a social thing that
was transferred and it's the memes that
we now pass on to Future Generations
that are important and what are those
memes for me is unconditional love I
can't go through the story of how that's
come up in my my my life I did my as a
very mature student I did my masters in
Consciousness and transpersonal
psychology on the title of from Fear of
the other to unconditional love I really
looked into the nature of it but
how do we move how how do we move from
here we've got a prevailing ecosystem of
memes which are separation which and
with separation comes
um you you have to make up for this
emptiness somehow as you say we are we
are the one at our deepest levels so
separation leads us to Greed and all all
the things that are happening and so
that's a prevailing ecosystem how do we
change it and sometimes if you have a
prevailing ecosystem which dominates
there can be niches in that Eco system
where new cells conform and I see as a
and like this is a cell here tonight and
I'm a Consciousness only person I think
the nature of reality is consciousness
and I think we underplay the value of
this a zoom meeting for example we think
we're all in separate places we are but
Consciousness itself is non-local
there's no separation between our minds
at this moment if we were in the same
room your words Chris and do it um doing
that they would be sounding the same in
our heads whatever the medium of
transmission so right now we're not
separate here we're not separate now we
we can communicate mind to mind and
sometimes
um
species
um have different
phases of their their of their
individual Evolution right like a fungus
can have a place as a Spore and then it
can come to Earth and then form and I
think there's a great possibility in
doing you were talking about this the of
the the medium right like this that we
can form these cells of spores at the
moment so we're ready to come to Earth
and we can begin to come to earth now
and I hope out of this meeting tonight
there will be a few people I want to be
part
of cells now looking at how we can
transform I I haven't had a psychedelic
path I took I took acid once 50 years
ago
um a new girlfriend introduced me to it
and it blew my it blew my mind if I
could
have continued if I could have got
standardized Doses and proper
supervision I definitely would have
continued but I probably wasn't
um ready for it at that time but I I
know that the power Captain one that one
experience it it you know it changed a
lot of things for me so what I would
like to do is uh maybe the convenience
of this meeting could I'll put my email
address and if anybody wants to form a
cell to write to take up some of the
themes we've been talking about I would
love to be part of that so and I want it
I want us to move from tonight so thank
you both very much of such a stimulating
and motivating tool
uh thank you David and how do we change
how do we move forward and when I when
I'm asked that question in public
lectures I say read Dwayne elgin's book
talk to Dwayne Elgin so Dwayne this
one's yours
thank you both uh David uh first thing I
would say is that uh separation is is uh
is now breaking down and um
like it or not we're being pushed into a
sense of uh Unity as a species organism
and we need to step up to take care of
uh the emergencies that surround us now
so first of all the separation is true
and it has been really Amplified by a
consumerist materialist mindset but that
mindset is breaking down it that is the
mindset that's creating the the crises
that we're facing right now so
um the first thing that needs to happen
is we withdraw legitimacy from that
mindset that world view that Paradigm
and we are we are withdrawing legitimacy
from that paradigm
if you look at the young people on the
planet surveys show a reason Global
survey showed that 57 percent of young
people feel we are doomed quote we're
doomed that's what they were saying 57
now the politicians are certainly not
saying that the uh the corporate uh
people are not saying that typical uh
academics are not saying that religious
leaders traditionally are not saying
that but it is servicing in the world
nonetheless because that is the reality
is breaking you know separations
breaking down those legitimacy of the
old institutions is is declining and so
we have an opportunity to choose new
Pathways ahead personally
institutionally collectively and so this
is a an extraordinary time in human
history when when we do have it we have
freedom there's this interval of Freedom
that we have to make choices Anew and we
didn't have that like when I'm 80 as
well David and uh so when I was young
boy there were not there wasn't the
freedom to make those kind of choices
but there is now and so uh this is an
Awakening time uh for the Human family
instead of time to use the media and and
the computer systems and all the rest
create new memes create new memes uh for
a possibility that's what Chris is doing
that's what I'm doing and it's clearly
it seems what you're doing as well keep
going
uh we're just getting started here keep
let me add a footnote to that
when I was doing my psychedelic work I
never let my students know about it
never talked about it I mean I taught
psychedelic research I taught Stan
Groff's work but I never let them know
that I was doing this work personally
I only a few people and a few friends in
my department knew what I was doing
so I had these two separate sides of my
life I had a silo where I did my
psychedelic work and then I'd come to
campus and I would be doing my ordinary
teaching work
but what I found was that
the deeper I went in my psychedelic work
the more the effects of that work began
to spill over and show up in my
classroom
that my students were being impacted by
my psychedelic Journey even though they
weren't being impacted they weren't
knowing about it they were I wasn't
talking about it it wasn't a physical
impact there was a thought of a psychic
impact
uh I began to find that there was a
porosity where I was beginning to have
access to aspects of their life where in
my personal experience I was just
answering a question I was reaching into
the fertile void of my imagination to
answer a question that a student was
being asked
but then I they would come up and tell
me that the answer that I had given
was an actual reflecting actually what
was happening in their life that week
this time and this was this was rattled
me so badly that I began to have to
study what the hell's going on here how
can my personal work be producing these
Collective manifestations
and I I worked on this for a long time
and eventually I wrote the book The
Living classroom which is really not so
much about teaching it's about the
Dynamics of the collective psyche in
groups
States Of Consciousness there is no such
thing as private realization States Of
Consciousness are inherently Collective
an awakened State of Consciousness
naturally distributes out around us it's
like throwing a rock in a lake the
ripples just spread out when a person
begins to throw off the layers of
distortion and pain and begin to enter
into deeper and deeper states of clarity
the people around us are naturally
spontaneously and inevitably are
affected now there are things that we
can do to accelerate and intensify this
contagion we can meet online
we can we can dissolve distances of
thousands of miles by bringing our minds
together in this one space and I believe
psychically we energize the the field of
the smile of this Collective space if we
did this once a week every week for
several years we would begin to
experience an even stronger field
because it would be influenced by Rupert
sheldrick's work and morphogenetic field
Theory not just by the energy of this
particular group of people but by all
the people who had ever come together to
study or to discuss this particular
issue that's what I found in my classes
too that it wasn't just a matter of my
mind can sort of having a a derivative
or an impact on the present students but
the students and coming together to
study these things and to learn these
things we're generating a field and this
field persisted after the students left
and it was reinforced and deepened by
the field by the students who came next
semester so that there was a learning
that was taking place within the
semester and there was a learning that
was taking place across semesters over
years and years
so we have the psychic reality that
where one of us goes all of us go to a
degree but then we can reinforce that by
using the technology that reinforces
this Collective sharing right and it
doesn't have to be simply a psychic
distribution it can be a physical
distribution and a physical creativity
yeah
yeah great question David
yep thank you thank you I see three
three questions also a question in the
chat box will uh we'll uh serve for the
the the end uh
and I want to say this because uh David
I want to reassure you this movement
will continue and we as a wizard Keepers
we already started this this trajectory
of this movement so everyone is
subscribed uh for this wisdom Keepers or
the former wisdom Keepers will be
invited for our next wisdom Keepers
Circle to keep this alive and doesn't
matter where you want to share your
um yeah your your future perspectives or
your ideas
Etc you were more than invited in our
next Gathering our Circle will be on the
18th of February that's on a Saturday to
have space for everyone to wants to be
involved uh to continue with the journey
and to learn to grow into maturity so uh
great question David thank you um
are they regular
um meetings how far apart are they so we
we want monthly because uh as youngsters
we and youngsters I feel I'm almost 50 a
male a little bit younger but you are
youngsters I I I do my psychedelic
training I I do my psychedelic work I'm
a doctor I have a retreat center and Etc
so monthly basis but there are a lot of
groups where you can share in but uh
you're more than invited to uh to join
and to um to join together
yeah I'll come I'll I'll also put my
email address in the in in the chat box
okay thank you very much I'll let the
questions move on yeah perfect and I
think it's and that's a that's an
indirect question uh or a Council of
Elders as we already discussed Chris uh
during the the LSD in the mind of the
universe course I think it's wise to
invite them as well just to open a space
for wisdom Keepers to uh to add their
wisdoms during the meeting so we can
learn and Thrive to get so thank you for
that
um a question by Todd please fill up
okay I'll be briefs and I already had my
turn but uh I want to mention to Dwayne
um first of all thank you both again for
everybody that shows up here for for
being part of this living classroom but
Dwayne I had captive here and I might
have shared with you previously
um my son is a college student and
several of his friends uh for a recent
uh for spring break and we used your
book choosing Earth and we had little
assignments and play and deep
conversation but I what I would offer is
that if we're not amongst those of that
age group we're not realizing to what
degree the Consciousness is already
changing amongst those Greeks those
folks I mean it's it's palpable
different and the questions that they're
asking are starting from a higher or
deeper level of Consciousness you know
I'm not to in any way malign you two
lovely 80 year olds but I'm a great fan
of the Actuarial tables I mean I think
that's our our continuing reincarnation
uh blender and so when you see these
ones coming up that are having the
questions that they're grappling with
have already been answered in their mind
that previous generations thought were
not even questions were valid so anyway
I appreciate choosing Earth and there
are a lot of good youth out there that
are populating further and farther and
forward so thank you and good night
thank you thank you Tom
aren't they aren't they just amazing
they are so much farther along the young
people are than we were when we were
their age I mean it's just it's like
when when the going gets tough God sends
in The A-Team you know they are just
extraordinary in their capacities in
their Drive
Terry you've got your hand up
I do and uh
thank the wisdom Keepers yet so thank
you for for putting this on and thank
you Chris I've been following you a bit
over the years and Dwayne um I had never
heard of you until I read
um choosing Earth so huge gratitude for
giving that to us for free really really
appreciate that and my question has to
do with
um the labor pains
and the creative intelligence
is it is it in the realm of possibility
that things like like covet like the
climate climate crisis that they're part
of the labor pains to bring us into an
Awakening an awareness a connection a
worldwide Union of of spiritual Souls
um to to know to know the truth and to
move us forward into a miraculous future
yes yes absolutely yes indeed uh the
trauma of the traumas of our time are
catalysts for awakening and so a trauma
is not something to avoid but rather to
embrace to learn from and to rise above
and so we are being pushed by the
traumas of our own creation the uh
Speech and Extinction resource depletion
uh climate uh crisis and so on these are
these are things we're creating but now
we're the our Creations are coming back
to uh impact us and and to push us into
a larger sense of who we are as a
species a deeper sense of of what is
going on here and where we're going so
absolutely this is a part of the labor
pains of the birth of a species
civilization and soul yes
okay thank you yep I really do
uh yeah you got it yeah
you know
what we're seeing going into this
Century where we are now decade by
decade things are going to be getting
worse it's going to be a deeper
unraveling uh a deeper falling apart we
can see some of the ways in which this
is likely to manifest it's going to
manifest in ways that we can't
anticipate quite yet and it's going to
hurt like hell but as Dwayne said these
are all these are problems of our own
making
these are problems of our own making so
we're going to have to confront that in
us which has made these problems and I
again I want to remind you who is
confronting this crisis who's going to
be going into this Global Systems crisis
not human beings the way we ordinarily
think of human beings
Souls will be going into this crisis
each human being carries multiple
multiple multiple incarnations woven
into the fabric of their psycheon into
their body that means that each human
being is carrying potentially thousands
of years of experience going into this
crisis some of those experiences are
really negative and kind of you know
destructive but many of those
experiences are are mature wiser and we
if we if the world is at odds with
itself
our soul is also at odds with itself
we're having to come to terms with our
own limitations and the important Point
here is that what's happening on the
world out at large mirrors what's
happening in the world
intra-psychically the world is trying to
become one is trying to confront the
limitations of his past behaviors but we
carry those that those behaviors we
carry those Tendencies inside our
psyches so that as the world is
struggling to become one we are
struggling to become coherent within
ourselves and become one soul and I
think there is a Synergy there so that
the the the drivers of Global Systems
crisis in global climate change and and
the various uh diseases that will be
hitting us and so on and so forth
those are driving a global Awakening
and simultaneously they're driving an
inner internal Awakening so it's a
full-time situation
all right thank you thank you both thank
you Terry
it's amazing how two and a half hours
um already passed and it feels like
we're just beginning and that's it's a
beautiful thing and I want to create 10
more minutes for a rounding part as we
say psychedelics it needs to be
beautifully around
before we go I want to invite someone
didn't ask a question but feel somewhere
deep inside itself want to ask a
question to think about it to have this
opportunity to ask or to share someone
something I want also to give the
opportunity to my uh to ask a question
from whatever sword it is and I go to
the chat box now because I saw there was
a question came coming in
and I have to see where it is
um
sorry
[Music]
um
so I can't find the question now
I have a question
okay so please so I can't find the
question in the in the in the chat box
now if you have put the question in the
chat box please
feel open to uh to raise your hand and
ask us question uh Lively Mayo please go
ahead and then Michelle Sawyer
me okay Dwayne Chris I love you guys
there's nothing more to say but I love
you guys as much as I love everyone else
as David said we are Consciousness and
even even though we are utilizing some
of the systems some of the actual
technologies that perhaps might have
brought us here in this time in our
world faster than in The evolutionary
history
we are connected and this is what
matters the most for me and hopefully
for everyone else my question for both
Chris and Dwayne Chris you mentioned
compassion as well as Wayne you
mentioned suffering and in in the other
face of suffering there's compassion and
with that there is beyond personal
compassion and Beyond Collective
compassion but what are the three
practical steps that we can take today
to gain the sense of compassion for
Chris and Dwayne what are three
practical or at least give us one
practical application in a sense I'm
looking forward to what does
communication how does that play a role
in this sharing in this understanding of
compassion from our humanness not from
the individuality but from the humanness
that ties us all into the soul
enrich life yeah
good question hondoin
uh she's asking us to put it on the line
here yeah you know give us three
specific things
you want to take the first one all right
golly I'm going to give one that I think
uh he would be surprised with so what
the heck uh I was going to be a doctor
early on in life as I mentioned at the
outset and I was thinking about being a
vet or a doctor and so one thing that I
do when I look at the world and how we
humans are creating it I look at animal
rescue videos
and I tell you if you look at at the uh
creatures of the earth and different
parts of the earth and you go online and
say well dog rescues or animal rescue
and the videos start coming up and it
just breaks the heart open
and and the the love for the well-being
of all life not just human life all life
is just floods into your heart your soul
your mind your Consciousness if you look
at the suffering of animals and um and
say well it could be better it doesn't
have to be like that of why do they have
to suffer so much well it it pushes back
against us so number one
uh I would say go online and just look
at videos of animals and uh dogs and
cats and so on and and how they're
suffering
um and this is goes beyond whether we
eat meat or not this has to do with life
and how it's being lived by the rest of
the creature on this Earth uh that we
share it with so that would be one it's
really really powerful yeah
I agreed when the thing that came into
my mind first was
take some suffering out of the world
look at our lives take some suffering
out of the world
not only just between human beings
leading towards a gentler life at a
clearer life but towards other species
look at how our life is impacting and
causing suffering in the world and take
it out in in spiritual practice and in
Buddhist practice for example the first
thing you do when you begin any
meditation any practices you cultivate
bodhichitta which is the cultivating the
desire to save all sentient beings which
is you're doing this practice not for
yourself
the last thing you do at the end of the
practice is you do what's called the
distribution of Merit you take all the
Merit that you're generated with the
practice and you give it away you give
it away to all levels of the being
because this is an attempt to shatter
the illusion of individual Enlightenment
we do not do these practices for
ourselves it's not about personal
transformation it's about Collective
transformation and in terms of taking
suffering out of the world
Dwayne how could you not mention
here were voluntary Simplicity the first
book you wrote right yeah this is this
is common sense for a world that's
living over its means voluntary
Simplicity simpler
simple not in order to starve yourself
or deny yourself but simpler in order to
liberate yourself in order to and to
liberate yourself to give yourself
options that you don't have if you're
committed to complexity affluence and so
on and so forth so gentler
shared
and simpler
yeah great thank you so much and and
with with that
um something that both of you
created a an important note on is using
media as tool yes how can we utilize the
media David also spoke about circles
besides watching videos of animals and
also the suffering that we have as a
world
what are some ways that media can impact
what what can we build how can we build
these these these real connections with
other human beings through these vegans
are there any projects that both of you
are involved that maybe we can jump on
or or expand on that
brain
well great question
um the choosing Earth Project
choosingearth.org
um really is is attempting to do this
build networks of of care and compassion
for the well-being of all life that's
explicit in in the work that we're doing
it's not just for we humans it's for all
life we all rise or fall together and so
um let's build the relationships of
awareness of compassion of Love uh on
behalf of the well-being of all life and
uh it's just exploding uh onto the Earth
right now and they're just countless uh
avenues for
um tapping into the creativity the
Consciousness and the care The
Compassion it's there and and and we
need to meet what the opportunity that's
now available uh and I'm thinking of
young people as well at the same time
and how far along this path they are
relative to uh we adults we holders and
by the way I don't think Chris is
nowhere near 80 he's a kid on the Block
yeah oh I'm only 73. 73 he's got a long
ways to go so you know in the broader to
sort of push beyond the sort of specific
media question
um
I don't think
to bring this revolution about to bring
this transformation about it's going to
take
just all of the skills that we have all
the capacity is here it's going to take
doctors going to take social activists
going to take Educators it's going to
take politicians it's going to take
artists it's going to take musicians
it's if we start making an itemized list
of what we need to do then we're
inevitably shrink to some kind something
that reflects our own personal strengths
our own our personal agenda I think the
the issue is
not figuring out what we can do
I don't think that's the hard part
the hard part is finding the courage
within ourselves to do with what we know
we can do right here right now we are
already standing on the spot where we
have chosen to stand as our awareness as
we come into awareness do we have the
courage to do what we know we can do
without delay right now right on and
every one of us who asks who is willing
to do that we're going to do different
things because we have different
aptitudes different agendas different
karmic trajectories we don't need to do
what somebody else is doing we just need
to do what we have the capacity to do
right here right now as deeply as we can
and in that lives I think a deep
existential satisfaction in that we can
come to the end of our life and know we
did our part
and that's what we want isn't it we want
to know that we did our part as deeply
as we could yeah right great question
thank you so much both of you for
existing and for showering us with your
wisdom and all of your energy we really
appreciate who you are and what you are
for all of us thank you you're very
welcome thank you
um
Michelle Michelle everby uh you had a
question
thank you Bass
um just listening to the last few
answers has just brought up more
questions so I'll hold those
um my original question really projects
far far into the future
and arises from some of my own visions
that I've had through meditation and
at this point in our this historical
Point as we are
um at the ends of our experiment of
separation and materialism
within that context were held within
this very dense physical
body
so
Chris in your Journeys have you
journeyed to the point or seen
that place where there's no longer a
need for this physical dense form where
we actually are Consciousness in our
etheric emotional causal bodies we don't
need a physical body anymore
but we are living this experience in
this
altered reality I suppose it wouldn't be
this dense physical reality
you know I don't question but that that
is a potential that can be actualized
and may be actualized over the long
course of our evolutionary trajectory
but my focus has been different and I
think that
I think that we have we're coming out of
a period of history about 5 000 years
old
where we have had a kind of a
transcendent
orientation
all the religions of the axial age of
about the last three to five thousand
years
I think what happened was we began to
have experiential access to the mother
Universe we began to be able to go deep
enough with our meditation yoga we'd be
our psychedelics began to tap into the
mother universe and when we did that we
expected Joy Bliss ecstasy clearly this
is home this is where we belong this is
where we want to be and that leads leads
to a story of the Fall
and then salvation to get home the whole
project is to get home to go back home
and that the ramifications of that are
to Value Transcendence over imminence so
devalue Spirit over the physical body
I understand that and that that we have
Echoes of that
but I think now in the 20th century 21st
century now that science has pulled back
the curtain and shown us how old the
universe is and how big it is we measure
it in light years
six million million miles in one light
year and we measure it in billions and
billions of light years so big so old
and so filled with genius that it
doesn't really have the same appeal to
say the goal is to leave it behind
and so the my work went and it's not my
work
none of my sessions are my work I just
opened up and let the universe talk to
me and what it talks to me about is
embodying spirituality transforming the
body bringing it in deeper and deeper
and deeper into the body that literally
it changes our biochemistry it changes
it allows us not only to be healthier
but allows us to live longer SRI our
bindo thought it would take his
calculation was it would take 300 years
of continuous spiritual practice before
we could begin to become biologically
self-regenerating and we could basically
live forever in a human body
it doesn't need to break down but we
have to increase the energy within it
but first we have to extend the life
expectancy to give us the 300 years to
allow us to do that type of practice his
vision also is towards doing more and
more and more
spiritual stuff inside the beauty of the
physical Universe to become co-creators
with the physical universe
now whether there are some aspects of
this whole thing which are purely
transcendental sure why not you know how
many physical universes are there we
don't know
we have reasons we know you know we know
we don't know so we don't know how big
the entire arena is that we can
incarnate into
yeah
I I I'd like to reply to that as well a
wonderful question very interesting
question
um
first of all I I I would point out that
our universe even though it's 13.8
billion years old
in Cosmic time that's a just an instant
a cosmic instant and
um my guess is that in addition to in
not just my guess is that in addition to
our universe we are embedded within the
life force of a of a mother universe so
we're a daughter Universe embedded in
the spaciousness of a mother Universe
the mother universe is completely
unbounded in terms of dimensional
constraints here we are living in the
second third fourth dimension and that
means we're just a couple of steps above
a black hole we're just getting started
here three dimensions four dimensions
that's nothing in in the scale and the
depth of the mother universe and so
um a body is very useful if you're going
to be confined to two three four
dimensions get a body for that but if
you're living in the in the context of
the mother universe and the um the
aliveness that goes vastly dimensionally
beyond two three four dimensions into
200 300 400 Dimensions who knows what
kind of vehicle is most appropriate most
fitting for that Journey
so but here we are though we're just
getting started we're early in the in
the evolutionary game I think
um and so let's embrace the physicality
that we have knowing that deeper and
further in The evolutionary journey is
the Transcendent possibility of
hyperdimensionality and new forms of
being and learning and and loving and
living so
yeah
great if you put your hand up
yes thank you both my dears
um friends
I would like to just build upon and add
another thought to the question that was
posed about I think what can we do now
whatever
um the masculine three things
an a numerical position here
uh and Chris I loved what you said about
each individual because we're all you
know unique expressions of the great uh
whole will do something unique and
different all necessary and all
absolutely equal in importance
absolutely
and so to that I want to say that while
we're thinking of media and ways of
doing hyper connectivity and Broad scale
connectivity to
to understand
that we are ourselves right between our
ears is the greatest motherboard of all
and
any thought we have thought I'm not even
talking about words now
but any thought we have when we talk
about morphogenetic fields
is broadcast to these reaches of the
universe to which you were just
referring Dwayne
there's no ends point on this stuff so
if you want to start contributing
as broadly and as powerfully as you can
at this from this second on become a
great student of your own thoughts and
learn to notice them and
check in is this really what I want to
be contributing both to this being
that's housed in this body in terms of
my physical mental spiritual emotional
health but also is this what I want to
project out to uplift all of humanity
and Beyond and if if it is great keep
doing more of it if it's not course
correct do a tweak here or there Elevate
just a tad and know that in that moment
you're doing a great and massive and
infinite contribution
and to just add another thought all of
our encounters however
um random or or unimportant in quotes
they may seem to be and again we all go
to the grocery store and we say thank
you to the clerk if we're not scanning
our own groceries
um
it's for a b
hold that eye contact so that you know
you've touched soul to soul and trust
that that reverberates out infinitely
because that person we were both
nourished by that interaction
both of us connected we found you know
it's it's what Ubuntu you know it's I
see you and you see me therefore we
exist so yes yes uh the big loud and
Broad things we can do but never
underestimate
that we can do all of that in an instant
from where we are with what is in us
right now
yes amen thank you Eve thanks again for
the beautiful contribution Eve thank you
so much and it adds so much up to um to
our first wisdom keeper we had in our
wisdom Keepers Gathering uh Jude curvin
oh yes speaking about the whole uh the
Hologram and the informational field
where
we can add all our information what we
transmit
directly to this information field and
and looking at the clerk and really
sensing the souls it's amazing
information adding up to uh
to the mind of the universe so thank you
for that and if you want to see uh the
the former wisdom Keepers gatherings in
the chat box you find the most upper
Parts the the YouTube channel so if you
want to look look it back feel free to
do so
um I feel we don't want to go home we're
already home but we don't want to leave
this setting and that's a beautiful a
set of setting uh we created all
together I invite one more question and
then I have to be strict as a moderator
uh so if one feels very urgently you
want to ask a question or to share
something feel free to open up your
microphone it's on a random occasion
let me try something may I make a little
different suggestion boss
I'd like to and I I'd like to just take
this opportunity to the end to thank the
group
because I know that Dwayne and I have
been carrying the weight of some of the
discussion but boy what an extraordinary
group this is
all each one of you have come into this
moment in time with a long history Long
series of development and the the minds
and the bodies and the awareness which
you brought to this conversation made it
the conversation that it became I have
expressed such deep appreciation not
only to Bass and the Mayo but to all of
you for coming together for holding
these questions for for holding this
driving force which is taking us all
forward thank you thank you so very much
yes yes
thank you Chris
I would drive everybody to put a heart
up on the screen and share a better love
it there
I don't know how to do that under
reactions under reactions okay
or use your hands
okay sending love from this space to all
and it's all felt as a community
uh dear family
um thank you for your contribution
the donation as a gift as you all
contributed as a as a community
uh beautiful energies coming to the
choosing Earth Project so send it
tomorrow
and
um let's go on together as a family and
we see each other a lot so thank you for
joining
a lot from this space thank you Chris
Dwayne
that's right for your work for your
wisdoms thank you so much thank you
thank you
how beautiful
bye bye everybody Namaste
everybody ciao
nice seeing you again Bridget
David
let's talk
it's a long time ago